## Project Name: TV and Movie Listing API's

#### Fully Functional and Flexible Production Ready Backend With JWT Cookie Based Authentication

### Technologies:

#### JavaScript, Node JS, GraphQL, MongoDB, ORM (Mongoose), Apollo Server, Apollo Express, JWT etc.

#### Followed the standard data structure from different type of website like Netflix, MLWBD etc about how they organize the data according to difference media like Movies and TV Shows.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18.16.0 LTS) should be installed on your system. You can download it from [here](https://nodejs.org).

#### MongoDB

- The project uses MongoDB Cloud as a database. No need to integrate any DB Credentials, but if you having trouble to get connected to my cloud you can always use your MongoDB database, to do that you can follow these steps:

  1. Create a database on MongoDB which will have three collections `movies`, `tvshows`, and `users`
  2. Go to the `.env` file and change the `MONGO_URL` with you MongoDB URL.

### Getting Started

- To get you started you can simply clone the repository:

`git clone https://github.com/itzrizvi/SS-BACKEND-TASK-Shahriar-Rizvi.git`

- Open terminal on the root of the repo folder and run the following commands

- Install the dependencies

`npm install`

### Start the server

- Start the server with `npm run dev` command

<hr>

## API Docs

<hr>

## Authentications

An admin has all privileges including create, delete and update movie or tvshow and a user or guest visitor can only retrieve list of movies or tvshows or any specific one.

### ADMIN Authentication

```
ID: sayburgh@gmail.com
PASS: A12345678
```

### How the API works briefly:

- The Admin API provides two operations: `adminSignUp` and `adminSignIn`.
- The `adminSignUp` mutation allows an admin user to sign up by providing their first name, last name, email, and password.
- The `adminSignIn` mutation allows an admin user to sign in by providing their email and password.
- Upon successful sign-up or sign-in, an authentication token (JWT) is generated, and it is returned in the response for further authorization and also set token to Cookie as it follows cookie based auth.

### Mutation Parameters and Types:

#### For adminSignUp:

- `data` (Object of type `AdminInput`): Contains the admin user's `first name, last name, email, and password`.

#### For adminSignIn:

- `email` (String): The email of the admin user.
- `password` (String): The password of the admin user.

### Output:

#### For adminSignUp and adminSignIn, the output is of type AdminAuthOutput.

### AdminAuthOutput contains the following fields:

- `message` (String): A message indicating the status of the operation.
- `status` (Boolean): Indicates whether the operation was successful (true) or not (false).
- `data` (Object of type AuthPayload): Contains the authentication payload.

### AuthPayload contains the following fields:

- `authToken` (String): The authentication token (JWT) generated upon successful sign-up or sign-in.
- `id` (String): The ID of the admin user.
- `first_name` (String): The first name of the admin user.
- `last_name` (String): The last name of the admin user.
- `role` (String): The role of the admin user (Auto generated by routes).
- `email` (String): The email of the admin user.
- `User` API:

### Examples

#### Sign Up Payload

```
{
  "data":{
        "first_name":"Sayburg",
        "last_name": "Solution",
        "email":"sayburgh@gmail.com",
        "password":"A12345678"
	}
}
```

#### Sign Up Mutation

```
mutation adminSignUp($data:AdminInput){
  adminSignUp(data:$data){
    message
    data {
      id
      first_name
      last_name
      email
      authToken
      role
    }
  }
}
```

#### Sign In Payload

```
{
    "email":"sayburgh@gmail.com",
    "password":"A12345678"
}
```

#### Sign In Mutation

```
mutation adminSignIn($email: String!, $password: String!){
  adminSignIn(email:$email, password: $password){
    message
    data {
      id
      first_name
      last_name
      email
      role
      authToken
    }
  }
}
```

### USER Authentication

```
ID: shahriar.rizvi03@gmail.com
PASS: A12345678
```

### How the API works briefly:

- The User API provides two operations: `userSignUp` and `userSignIn`.
- The `userSignUp` mutation allows a user to sign up by providing their `first name, last name, email, and password`.
- The `userSignIn` mutation allows a user to sign in by providing their email and password.
- Upon successful sign-up or sign-in, an authentication token (JWT) is generated, and it is returned in the response for further authorization.

### Mutation Parameters and Types:

#### For userSignUp:

- `data` (Object of type UserInput): Contains the user's first name, last name, email, and password.

#### For userSignIn:

- `email` (String): The email of the user.
- `password` (String): The password of the user.

### Output:

#### For userSignUp and userSignIn, the output is of type UserAuthOutput.

### UserAuthOutput contains the following fields:

- `message` (String): A message indicating the status of the operation.
- `status` (Boolean): Indicates whether the operation was successful (true) or not (false).
- `data` (Object of type AuthPayload): Contains the authentication payload.

### AuthPayload contains the following fields:

- `authToken` (String): The authentication token (JWT) generated upon successful sign-up or sign-in.
- `id` (String): The ID of the user.
- `first_name` (String): The first name of the user.
- `last_name` (String): The last name of the user.
- `role` (String): The role of the user (Auto generated by routes).
- `email` (String): The email of the user.

### Examples

#### Sign Up Payload

```
{
  "data":{
        "first_name":"Shahriar",
        "last_name": "Rizvi User",
        "email":"shahriar.rizvi03@gmail.com",
        "password":"A12345678"
	}
}
```

#### Sign Up Mutation

```
mutation userSignUp($data:UserInput){
  userSignUp(data:$data){
    message
    data{
      id
      first_name
      last_name
      email
      authToken
      role
    }
  }
}
```

#### Sign In Payload

```
{
  "email":"shahriar.rizvi03@gmail.com",
	"password":"A12345678"
}
```

#### Sign In Mutation

```
mutation userSignIn($email: String!, $password: String!){
  userSignIn(email:$email, password: $password){
    message
    data {
      id
      first_name
      last_name
      email
      role
      authToken
    }
  }
}
```

### Main Three API's

### GET List and Single Item API of Movie and TV Show

### How the GET API Works

This API provides two main functionalities: retrieving a list of items and retrieving a single item.

- The `getItemList` query retrieves a paginated list of items, such as movies and TV shows.
- The `getSingleItem` query retrieves a single item based on its ID.

### Query Parameters and Types

#### `getItemList` Query:

- `query` (Object): An input object containing the following optional fields:
- `perPage` (Integer): The number of items to be displayed per page.
- `page` (Integer): The page number of the items to retrieve.

#### `getSingleItem` Query:

- `query` (Object): An input object containing the following field:
- `id` (String): The ID of the item to retrieve.

### Output

#### `getItemList` Output:

- `message` (String): A message indicating the status of the operation.
- `status` (Boolean): A value indicating the success or failure of the operation.
- `movies` (Array of Movie objects): The retrieved movies.
- `tvShows` (Array of TVShow objects): The retrieved TV shows.
- `pagination` (Object): An object containing pagination metadata:
- `page` (Integer): The current page number.
- `perPage` (Integer): The number of items per page.
- `totalItems` (Integer): The total number of items.
- `totalPages` (Integer): The total number of pages.

#### `getSingleItem` Output:

- `message` (String): A message indicating the status of the operation.
- `status` (Boolean): A value indicating the success or failure of the operation.
- `movie` (Movie object): The retrieved movie, if found.
- `tvShow` (TVShow object): The retrieved TV show, if found.

### Examples of GET Queries

#### GET LIST

#### Params

```
{
    "query":{
       "perPage":2,
       "page":1
    }
}
```

#### Query

```
query getItemList($query:GetItemListInput){
  getItemList(query:$query){
    message
    status
    movies {
        id
        title
        slug
        releaseDate
        runtime
        actors
        actresses
        producers
        genres
        directors
        productionTeam
        cameraAndItTeam
        visualEffectsTeam
        artTeam
        writers
        musicTeam
        locationDepartment
        costumeDepartment
        imdbRating
        origin
    }
    tvShows {
        id
        title
        slug
        seasons {
            season
            releaseDate
            totalRuntime
            episodes {
                episode
                title
                slug
                runtime
            }
        }
        actors
        actresses
        producers
        genres
        directors
        productionTeam
        cameraAndItTeam
        visualEffectsTeam
        artTeam
        writers
        musicTeam
        costumeDepartment
        imdbRating
        origin
    }
    pagination {
        page
        perPage
        totalItems
        totalPages
    }
  }
}
```

#### GET Single

#### Params

```
{
    "query":{
       "id":"6492a96a9facc9995281d9a7"
    }
}
```

#### Query

```
query getSingleItem($query:GetSingleItemInput){
  getSingleItem(query:$query){
    message
    status
    movie {
        id
        title
        slug
        releaseDate
        runtime
        actors
        actresses
        producers
        genres
        directors
        productionTeam
        cameraAndItTeam
        visualEffectsTeam
        artTeam
        writers
        musicTeam
        locationDepartment
        costumeDepartment
        imdbRating
        origin
    }
    tvShow {
        id
        title
        slug
        seasons {
            season
            releaseDate
            totalRuntime
            episodes {
                episode
                title
                slug
                runtime
            }
        }
        actors
        actresses
        producers
        genres
        directors
        productionTeam
        cameraAndItTeam
        visualEffectsTeam
        artTeam
        writers
        musicTeam
        costumeDepartment
        imdbRating
        origin
    }
  }
}
```

### How the Create Movie POST API Works:

- The API provides a mutation called `createMovie`.
- This mutation is used to create a new movie.
- The mutation expects a `CreateMovieInput` object as input, containing various details of the movie.
- Upon receiving the input, the API creates a new movie using the provided data.
- If the movie is created successfully, the API returns a success message.
- If there is an error during the creation process, the API returns an error message.

### Mutation Parameters and Types:

#### The mutation `createMovie` has a single parameter:

- data (Object of type CreateMovieInput): Contains the details of the movie to be created.

#### The `CreateMovieInput` type has the following required fields:

- `title` (String)
- `releaseDate` (String)
- `runtime` (String)
- `actors` (Array of Strings)
- `actresses` (Array of Strings)
- `producers` (Array of Strings)
- `genres` (Array of Strings)
- `directors` (Array of Strings)
- `productionTeam` (Array of Strings)
- `sponsors` (Array of Strings)
- `cameraAndItTeam` (Array of Strings)
- `visualEffectsTeam` (Array of Strings)
- `artTeam` (Array of Strings)
- `writers` (Array of Strings)
- `musicTeam` (Array of Strings)
- `locationDepartment` (Array of Strings)
- `costumeDepartment` (Array of Strings)
- `imdbRating` (String)
- `origin` (String)

### Output:

#### The output of the createMovie mutation is of type `CommonOutput`.

#### The CommonOutput type has the following fields:

- `message` (String): A message indicating the status of the operation.
- `status` (Boolean): A value indicating the success or failure of the operation.

### Example

#### Payload

```
{
    "data":{
        "title": "The Conundrum",
        "releaseDate": "2024-05-30",
        "runtime": "112 minutes",
        "actors": ["Oliver Johnson", "Sophia Davis"],
        "actresses": ["Emily Thompson"],
        "producers": ["John Smith", "Emma Wilson"],
        "genres": ["Mystery", "Drama"],
        "directors": ["David Brown"],
        "productionTeam": ["Rachel Adams", "Thomas Lee"],
        "cameraAndItTeam": ["Daniel Miller", "Jessica Anderson"],
        "visualEffectsTeam": ["Robert Carter"],
        "artTeam": ["Olivia Wilson", "Daniel Thompson"],
        "writers": ["Sarah Johnson"],
        "musicTeam": ["Andrew Carter", "Grace Wilson"],
        "locationDepartment": ["Michael Smith"],
        "costumeDepartment": ["Ava Davis"],
        "imdbRating": "8.0",
        "origin": "United States"
    }
}
```

#### Mutation

```
mutation createMovie($data:CreateMovieInput){
  createMovie(data:$data){
    message
    status
  }
}
```

### How the Create TV Show POST API Works:

#### Description:

- The createTVShow mutation allows an authorized user to create a new TV show by providing the necessary information.
- This mutation requires authentication to ensure only authorized users can create TV shows.

### Mutation Parameters and Types:

- `data` (Object of type CreateTVShowInput): Contains the information required to create a new TV show.
- `title` (String!): The title of the TV show.
- `seasons` ([SeasonInput!]!): An array of season objects containing information about each season.
- `actors` ([String!]): An array of actor names involved in the TV show.
- `actresses` ([String!]): An array of actress names involved in the TV show.
- `producers` ([String!]): An array of producer names involved in the TV show.
- `genres` ([String!]): An array of genres associated with the TV show.
- `directors` ([String!]): An array of director names involved in the TV show.
- `productionTeam` ([String!]): An array of names of the production team members.
- `cameraAndItTeam` ([String!]): An array of names of the camera and IT team members.
- `visualEffectsTeam` ([String]): An array of names of the visual effects team members.
- `artTeam` ([String]): An array of names of the art team members.
- `sponsors` ([String]): An array of names of the sponsors associated with the TV show.
- `writers` ([String!]): An array of writer names involved in the TV show.
- `musicTeam` ([String!]): An array of names of the music team members.
- `costumeDepartment` ([String!]): An array of names of the costume department members.
- `imdbRating` (String!): The IMDb rating of the TV show.
- `origin` (String): The origin or country of the TV show.

### Output:

#### The output is of type CommonOutput.

#### CommonOutput contains the following fields:

- `message` (String): A message indicating the status of the operation.
- `status` (Boolean): Indicates whether the operation was successful (true) or not (false).

### Authorization:

- The user must be authenticated to access this mutation.
- If the user is not authenticated, the mutation will return an error message indicating "Not Authorized".

### Example

#### Payload

```
{
    "data":{
        "title": "Breaking Bad",
        "seasons": [
            {
            "season": "1",
            "releaseDate": "2008-01-20",
            "totalRuntime": "8 hours",
            "episodes": [
                {
                "episode": "1",
                "title": "Pilot",
                "runtime": "58 minutes"
                },
                {
                "episode": "2",
                "title": "Cat's in the Bag...",
                "runtime": "48 minutes"
                },
                {
                "episode": "3",
                "title": "And the Bag's in the River",
                "runtime": "48 minutes"
                }
            ]
            },
            {
            "season": "2",
            "releaseDate": "2009-03-08",
            "totalRuntime": "10 hours",
            "episodes": [
                {
                "episode": "1",
                "title": "Seven Thirty-Seven",
                "runtime": "48 minutes"
                },
                {
                "episode": "2",
                "title": "Grilled",
                "runtime": "48 minutes"
                },
                {
                "episode": "3",
                "title": "Bit by a Dead Bee",
                "runtime": "47 minutes"
                }
            ]
            }
        ],
        "actors": ["Bryan Cranston", "Aaron Paul"],
        "actresses": ["Skyler", "Marrie"],
        "producers": ["Vince Gilligan", "Mark Johnson"],
        "genres": ["Crime", "Drama", "Thriller"],
        "directors": ["Vince Gilligan", "Michelle MacLaren"],
        "productionTeam": ["Peter Gould", "Melissa Bernstein"],
        "cameraAndItTeam": ["Michael Slovis", "Arthur Albert"],
        "visualEffectsTeam": ["William Powloski", "Gregory Nicotero"],
        "artTeam": ["Mark Freeborn", "Robb Wilson King"],
        "sponsors": [],
        "writers": ["Vince Gilligan", "Sam Catlin"],
        "musicTeam": ["Dave Porter"],
        "costumeDepartment": ["Kathleen Detoro"],
        "imdbRating": "9.5",
        "origin": "United States"
    }
}
```

#### Mutation

```
mutation createTVShow($data:CreateTVShowInput){
  createTVShow(data:$data){
    message
    status
  }
}
```

<hr>

## Security Implementations

<hr>

#### 1. I have made the backend secured with 3 layers of authorization checking from data payload to helper/service functions for private or authorized routes/API's to prevent an unauthorized injection.

#### 2. Made a permission checker function and also included middlewares to extract users data.

<hr>

## Other API's

While I enjoyed the task I was creating more API's as listed you can take a look to those API's also if you are interested.

<hr>

### Mutation API's

- `updateMovie` for updating each movies on `Movie` Collection
- `deleteMovie` for deleting a movie
- `updateTVShow` for updating a tvshow on `TVShow` collection (This API has some complex structures regarding the merging old and new data also used `Recursive` algorithm for a step here)
- `deleteTVShow` for deleting a tvshow

### Query API's

- `getMovieList` to GET only movie list with backend paginations
- `getSingleMovie` to GET only a single Movie
- `getTvShowList` to GET only tvshow list with backend paginations
- `getSingleTvShow` to GET only a single TV Show
